well hello I have a robot it's in this
box uh today I'm going to build a little
tiny quadrupedal walking robot it's a
Arduino based DIY kit takes about an
hour and I'm gonna have a lot of fun
doing this let's see what's in the box
okay we've got some baggage
first bag we have these are all of our
servos these are Tower Pro mg90s so
these are metal gear servos pretty nice
there should be eight in this kit and we
have another bag
this is our Electronics kit we have a
remote so this is IR controlled there's
you can hack in an app and do it from
your phone but you'd have to add a
Bluetooth module to this kit what else
we got in here we got an Arduino we have
a custom PCB let's let's go ahead and
actually get in here
okay so we have a four cell battery Bank
our Arduino which is conveniently
already mounted in our PCB every pin on
this Arduino is broken out which is
quite nice and over here we have nine
Servo pins so we only need eight but you
have one extra one if you want to add uh
you know an end effector or some neat
little tool robot the beauty of this
being an open source kit is that the
whole thing is hackable all the files
are available online and you can do
whatever you want with it you can make
it your own this is a ultrasonic
distance sensor so we can program the
Arduino to you know sense walls whatever
you want it to do and we've got our
remote and here's the IR sensor hiding
in the bag we're just going to leave
that all bagged up for now because we'll
we'll need it later we have all of our
laser cut Parts slow down turbo remove
masking tape from parts that takes time
we'll do that anyway oh yeah a little
bit of hardware
oh look at the tiny little wrench oh
it's so cute so while there is a manual
it's a little small for me so uh in
advance of this
I made a big manual so let's uh let's
take our first look inside we have a
little a little friend to help us along
the way let's get our wood out here and
start building
so these are laser cut parts and why
they mask it like this I think I brought
a tool so you can see all the smoke that
comes through when you you blast with
the laser and it it can make the edges
of your parts not look so nice they use
a big industrial roll of masking tape
that's rather expensive in my experience
but totally worth it if you do a lot of
laser cutting like I do so all these
parts are MDF
oh geez this is going to take forever I
might just skip this part
I think we'll do a little montage and
I'm gonna pop out all these parts and
prep all the pieces and then we'll get
to assembly
before I do that let me tell you about
our sponsor private internet access is a
VPN that encrypts all of your internet
traffic and used as a safe protected IP
connect up to five devices Windows Mac
OS Android iOS and Linux featuring an
internet kill switch that keeps you in
control of your connection try risk free
with a 30-day money-back guarantee at
the link below
[Music]
foreign
need to find myself more of these kits
so I can build them myself like we have
a laser here I have my laser MDF is
cheap and all these parts are really
cheap I always found the problem with
kits like this is you build it once and
then you're like oh this is neat I'll
use it for you know a week and be really
really happy with it and then it ends up
on a shelf and sits around but uh with
the Advent of arduinos and all these
reprogrammable little little computers
if you stop loving it you just tear it
apart use the parts for other things
like these 9g servos they're ubiquitous
you can use them in anything
[Music]
so there are multiple different types of
head so to speak so petal is in Walking
we are bipedal this is a quadruped so it
has four legs there are hexapods and
octopods and it keeps going up and up
and up so this one has two degrees of
freedom per leg we have a rotate right
here around this axis and then we have a
lift axis that's actually going to be in
the arm you'll see us build that a
little bit later
so we're a little limited compared to
some but it's enough to jog around or
you know if you're just trying to build
a little kit for a kid you know you want
to have a fun little hobby to sit down
for an afternoon and teach a kiddo how
to you know follow instructions I mean
it's the first step and then you can get
to modifying it make it your own have
fun that's my favorite part
[Music]
foreign
project is actually off of a place
called Tindy it's like Etsy for nerds
highly suggest it we'll have it linked
down on the doobly-doo
uh the meepad was designed by Scott
Pierce and he's a maker based in Idaho
who was making kits for something called
the me arm it's a very similar to this
like three degrees of freedom robotic
arm and as he was making a little money
selling these open source kits as as he
was allowed to he decided he wanted to
get back and he made this lovely kit for
all of us I looked back through the
history of him developing this kid and
it had long gangly arms and a couple
different versions but uh here we are
with the little kit that you can get for
under 100 bucks it's hard to say no to
building a robotics project for under
100 bucks like the amount of fun you'll
get out of this is definitely worth it
in my opinion but we'll see we still
have to build so with all these parts
cut we're ready to uh to start
assembling
foreign
[Music]
servos moving on what do we got next
I do believe that is leg assembly repeat
this step one nine four times
[Music]
and it takes more than an hour to make
this thing yeah well it's what you get
for trusting the internet
[Music]
Okay so we've got uh these four panels
made we're going to now make the leg
assembly
[Music]
cells don't tighten these which I don't
believe you want your servos to be rigid
so I'm going to keep doing that and if
the preservo fails that's my fault
moving on
no no no
no no
Pliers are now magnetized so anytime I
try to release this nut into the slot it
needs to go in
it just comes back out purely The
Darkest Timeline
[Music]
oh hell oh that was a bear
I've got four legs they're getting there
what a slug moving on these guys
got a random blank page in the manual
for some reason body assembly there are
those pieces I didn't know what they
were for oh look that same Fastener I
hate so much
[Music]
last Nylock okay the number of Fasteners
fits
it's a good sign
[Music]
so definitely still needs to Pivot nicer
than that
[Music]
we're getting real close Andy I can feel
it
I'm getting excited
I'm starting to actually see it move too
which is kind of cool
[Music]
little spider's almost there buddy I'm
at the point where I'm skipping
Fasteners that I've struggled with on
the other parts of this build because
not only do I think I can get away with
it but also I just don't have the time
okay
we've got the battery on and second to
last page
we're putting in the ultrasonic sensor
which goes here
and then we are ready to power on
[Music]
these plugs are definitely like bigger
than the pitch so they're starting to
Fan in and our final Port is eight now
there's one S9 on here so if you want to
add one thing down the line you can
after your me pad is fully assembled and
all the servo Mars are plugged in a
bunch of blah blah plug-in batteries uh
okay I have those conveniently in my
pocket I'm gonna plug in our batteries
now it lets out the Magic Smoke
I did a bad job
if it works did a great job
it's not good not seeing any lighting up
hmm
oh there's a power switch ah
all right all right
oh
it's definitely doing something
let's see here uh walk turn walk to his
wave
to receiving me
but it's not doing anything the servos
are moving
I was thinking about it
there we go
okay let's try this again so uh up walk
forward
nope down left right
you know what I might have done the
joints a little tight that's the only
thing I can think of
the
I think it might be low voltage that
might be my problem okay start with
fresh batteries it's always rule one
which I did not follow
good boys fresh boys oh they're still
warm
very fresh
well that's slightly disappointing
if you have no load on it it works just
fine
I tried real hard
as far as the build goes pretty
straightforward
but uh I wish it works better right out
of the box it's trying so hard I'll mess
around with it a little bit later
nonetheless
oh we got a wave a little tinkering I
think it'd be just fine all in all uh
thanks for watching guys subscribe to
short circuit and uh see you in the next
one